Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to discuss pulling layers which is the last theoretical concept we need
to cover before jumping in and cutting out our own compositional neural networks even with local connectivity
occurring in this convolution of layers when dealing with color images and possibly ask our network
for tens or hundreds of filters which is not uncommon.
We still have a huge amount of parameters we can use pooling layers to actually reduce this pulling
layers except convolution layers as input.
Here we see a very simple example of fitting in direct input images to a conversational air and then
the result of the compositional error to the pulling layer.
And as we just discussed the convolution layer has many filters and then a fair dealing of color images.
There's a filter per color channel so we get very large sensors here in this compositional layer.
And even if there is still local connectivity to go from input to convolution layer we still have a
lot of parameters so as I mentioned there convolution players will often have many filters.
Here we just have a single filter being shown.
But realistically we have many filters and then a filter per color channel and we think of these as
these large tensor objects and we want to do is reduce this.
So let's just take a single filter and see how well we would apply a pooling layer to the single filter.
And eventually this will expand to many filters.
Now there's different types of pulleys layers and they use different sub sampling or down sampling techniques
which is often what people also call pulling layers.
They'll call them sub sampling or down sampling layers and you'll see why in just a second so we're
going to do is reduce the size of this four by four filter using sub sampling.
So what we're gonna do here is we're going to use the max pulling layer and what we have to decide on
is the window size and then the stride length or stride count and what we're going to do is essentially
very similar to the same way we apply an image Col or image filter on top of an image.
We apply this pooling window on top of this filter.
So we have this two by two window and we're going to Australia to pass it along this filter and then
grab the max values here.
Is Max pulling so out of 1 3 2 and 4 the max values for and continue with this.
This is the max value of nine and this four by four or two by two.
And this two by two window we get again max value of nine.
And then over here on the bottom right.
The max value is three.
And while we do lose some information and doing this you can see that the general behavior has actually
still been kept.
The general information of the top left and bottom right is that those values or along that diagonal
seemed to be less than the diagonals going from bottom left to top right.
So we actually still get to keep that information except now we're dealing with just four parameters
instead of the previous 16 parameters.
So we've greatly reduced number of parameters here while still being able to keep the general information
with average pulling.
You did the exact same process except in this case instead of taking the max value you just average
out those values so you can tell that this would greatly reduce our number of parameters.
Which is why we feed in convolution layers into pooling layers this pooling layer will end up removing
a lot of information and even a small pooling kernel of two by two a frustrated two removes about 75
percent of the data that's input it into it however hopefully those general trends will still be true
throughout the pooling layer and other really common technique to try to help out with the training
time and over fitting problems a conversational neural network could face is the dropout layer.
I've already talked a little bit about this but dropout can be thought of as a form of regularization
to prevent overfishing and the way it works is during training units are randomly dropped which essentially
just means you turn them off and what you do is you provide a percentage start between 0 and 1.
You can say something like zero point five and what that means is as you go through training randomly
50 percent of those neurons in that layer are going to be turned off so they don't over fit too much
to the actual training data.
So again this helps and prevents units from CO adapting too much.
Now there's also I should point out some really famous convolution all neural network architectures.
There's at five Alex net a Google net or google it resonate and you can check out the resource links
to papers discussing these architectures though it's really cool now is given what you know about the
theory behind compositional neural networks you can now take a look at these images that describe the
actual compositional now networks and understand what's happening.
They're essentially just different order rings of either a pooling layer or a convolutions layer or
a densely fully connected layer etc. It's just the size of them what order they belong in and that is
the network itself.
So you can see here an example of Alex net and you can also see here how they visualize the convolution
layers and as you get further and further along the network they begin to learn more complex patterns.
And so here again is Alex net and you can see here we have Max pulling layers along with some dense
layers there's also convolution layers et cetera.
It's just the size and order and how many layers the side to use that essentially makes up these famous
architectures.
They can easily look up online.
Now keep in mind convolution only one that networks can have all types of architectures.
We showed the example of going from input to convolution the pulling layer but it's also really common
to feed compositional layers into each other into a pulling layer etc..
Or maybe you decide to go convolution pulling convolution pulling and that works really well for your
images.
There's really no wrong way to run these experiments of what accomplished on your own that work should
look like the best way to figure out what the best network for you is is to just try different combinations
and then use your metrics to decide which networks worked better than others.
Now keep in mind at the end of all these networks you're going to have some sort of function that fully
connects the results from the previous layer and then has an output layer which has the same number
of neurons as a number of classes.
So here we have a probably the simplest compositional neuron network you can have it just go from input
to convolution the pulling to some sort of fully connected layer which then leads to the output okay.
So now we learned about convolution layers and pulling layers and the way these networks all work together
let's go ahead and finally coat out our own convolution neural network.
I'll see you there.